My name is Hannes, I'm CEO here at Meridian, and at the moment I'm working on
trying to build the field that we're all working in, so finding talented people
who can contribute to working on AI safety. All the way back at school I was
always very interested in what I could do to make the lives of others better. I
think I realised quite early on that really science was my talent. I think
that when I was young I actually thought that perhaps I would invent a new
winterbine, like a more efficient winterbine, something like this. But then when I
was at university I came across effective altruism and I think that that made
my ideas about what I could do to help others a lot more concrete and a lot
more actionable. I sort of tried to find the best job that I could, you know, so
that I could earn to give. And so I got this job at AstraZeneca, which like
sort of matched my skills because I knew about chemistry and I knew about
machine learning. But increasingly as I watched the progress of AI, it became
much more real to me. And I started to think, you know, perhaps I really need to
move. I decided to quit my job at AstraZeneca, which was quite scary, and I took a
break from technical work. I took my bike from Cambridge to Istanbul over four
months, which was an amazing adventure and like raised some money for effective
causes that way for a little while to take a break. But then I came back and I
I decided to move into AI safety. I applied for some programs that at the time I
wouldn't have been a good candidate for because I didn't know the ecosystem. And
it took me a little while to find the right advice and figure out the right
place to start. Yeah, my first role here at Meridian was as a technical AI
safety research manager. And I launched the Visiting Researcher program, which
sort of brings researchers here to Meridian and provides them with a community
and research management. So after a little while of being in this role, I was
asked to step in as CEO. I think that Meridian has sort of two major roles. The
first is that since we're here next to the university with some of the best
talent in the world right next door, one of our roles is to try to find that
talent and to try to explain to people why this problem is urgent and important.
But then there's another aspect which is that we actually host a research
community ourselves. We've incubated a new technical AI safety research lab
called Geodesic Research, which has taken ownership of a part of AI safety
that was otherwise neglected. So you can see there that there's sort of like two
aspects. There's finding the talent and then hosting the research. And these two
goals actually fit alongside each other very well. It's much more attractive to a
talented student at the university to enter the field if they can instantly
come into contact with researchers who are actively working and making a
difference to AI safety. I think that I'm unusually open as many of the
people here in the Meridian community are to the idea that technological
change may come faster than we're intuitively expecting and that the
consequences might be very far reaching. And I think that there's a strong
argument that what we do now can make an impact. But there's other things that
motivate me as well. Since I moved into AI safety, I've suddenly come into contact
with lots of other people that think about the world in the same way that I do.
Like they want to fight for a better future. And then there's also just the
fact that it's so deeply fascinating. There's I think many layers to it. Yeah.
